[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Omega is a place for people
to deal with the experience
of life.
>> Come home to themselves.
>> Seekers of all kinds.
>> A spiritual community.
>> All paths meet.
>> A house with many rooms.
>> It's a ticket
into spirituality.
>> Spirit of holistic education.
>> Kindred spirits.
>> A sense of what it would be
like to really be themselves.
>> Retreats have
always been important.
>> Learning environment.
>> Omega is a great gift.
>> You always go
into to the desert.
>> It's hundreds of
thousands of seekers.
>> Tools for unity.
>> You always retreat.
>> Refuge in the 21st century.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm 39 years old.
I'm from Montreal, Canada,
where I was born and brought up.
I had good marks in school and
generally had a very average
and I'd say a
stimulating upbringing.
By the time I got into college
age, I started to lose focus.
And I started to lose interest
in studying hard and in reading
and in going to school on time.
I dropped out of
college, actually, just
after a few months and moved
out of my parents' house
at the young age of 17 and moved
into a large flat in downtown
Montreal, which was shared
by a group of musicians.
And we had constant
use of drugs,
alcohol, just 24-hour partying.
After that, it
was a real stumble
for a few years caused
by my lack of focus,
my continued use of drugs
and abuse of alcohol.
I went from job to
job very quickly.
From the time I was 17
until I was about 22 or 23,
I probably had upwards of 50
or 75 jobs in various cities
and towns all across Canada.
Basically I would take a job.
If I didn't like it after
a few hours, I would leave.
I really had
absolutely no focus.
And whereas I
always had the dream
and I knew I had the ability
to make a lot of money
and to be a rich
guy, I obviously
didn't apply myself to any
pursuit that would provide me
with the stability to really
provide value to anybody
else so that they would--
so that the money
would come to me.
Well, what happened was that
by the time I got into my 30s,
of course, you're not as
young and fresh and vibrant.
And hangovers seemed to
last a little bit longer.
You get a little bit
more accustomed to always
being stoned.
And if you're not
stoned for a day or two,
you wonder, where
can I get some pot?
Where can I get at least a
case of beer or something?
Eventually what happened, I
was living in a print shop that
belonged to a friend of mine.
On a couch is where I slept.
And I hadn't really hardly
any money to pay rent.
I would help him out with
his jobs a little bit.
Until one day even my print
friend, who was another drug
addict, finally just had enough
of me staying in his shop
and told me I was on my own.
When I realized that I had
really nowhere else to turn,
I sat in a chair
in this print shop
and listened to my
friend disown me,
who was really my last means of
support outside of my family.
I realized that I had to
change the way I lived
and that if I continued
the way I was going,
I was going to wind up homeless.
And I remember the
exact moment sitting
in that chair with a feeling in
the pit of my stomach of fear
that the only way was for
me to quit doing the dope
and to get onto
a spiritual path.
And it took everything
I had, but I moved back
in to my parents'
house at the age of 33.
The first thing I did was I
attended Cocaine Anonymous
meetings, Alcoholics
Anonymous meetings every day
for at least six
to eight months.
I went to a meeting,
and I didn't smoke
another joint for nine months.
It hit me hard.
But it didn't hit
me hard enough,
because after nine
months, I started smoking.
And I thought,
well, you know what?
I can handle it now.
I'll smoke one joint.
A month later I smoked
another joint, two weeks later
another joint, a week
later, a day later,
until it became an
everyday habit again.
What the problem was and what
happens to so many people
is I had not hit rock bottom.
It took me another six
months of using drugs
to finally sink low enough to
hit my personal rock bottom.
But it was really just
swallowing all my pride.
I feel that from
that point is when
I left my adolescence behind
and started to really think
about life more seriously.
I started taking the steps
required in order to live
a successful, effective life.
After just a little
bit of sobriety,
I gained back a lot of strength.
I got my youth back.
I had a lot of bills to pay.
I had about $30,000 of bills
to pay the day I got sober,
and I had an income
of absolutely zero.
I read about a
company in New York
City that was doing a big
job in the US in my business.
And he said, maybe they
could use you in Canada.
So I gave them a call.
And they said, if you're ever
in New York, give us a call.
I hung up the phone, I got in my
car, I drove to New York City.
I the next morning
put on a suit.
[BREATHES DEEPLY]
I went down to their
offices on Fifth Avenue
right across the street from
the Empire State Building.
I walked in without
an appointment.
And I stayed for five hours.
They hired me on the spot
to sell their merchandise
across Canada.
It was an incredibly
uplifting experience
to be able to look into the
eyes of a New York businessman
and tell him that I
can deliver Canada.
I could speak with
conviction and sincerity.
And he believed me.
That was 4 and 1/2 years ago.
I still work for that company.
And I am their key driving
force in the sales department.
The biggest lesson
that I've learned
is that conscious
living is going
to allow a man to
walk with his head
high without looking
over his shoulder
and knowing that he's
doing what's best.
It's consciousness and love
that will see us through
and that sees me through today.
And as long as I live my
life honestly and simply,
I can fall asleep at night,
and I can get up in the morning
and feel good.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> This is my story, impromptu
story of how I've come to find
a way out a day at a time
from compulsive overeating
and obesity.
I grew up watching my mom, who
was an obese woman, struggle
to overcome it.
And I watched her when
I was a little girl.
I remember when I
was five years old
having to hold her hand
while she walked to work down
the block at the
hospital because she was
so big she couldn't balance.
She had difficulty
balancing her body,
and she was afraid she
would slip on the ice.
She had varicose veins
that made it difficult
for her to walk and stand.
And I remember
seeing her hide food
in drawers and in the hamper.
And I learned from
her how to deal
or attempt to deal and cope
with feelings by using food
as a drug.
When I was 27 years
old, my mother was 62,
and she retired from
work and got cancer.
And she was dead within
a year and a half.
They called the disease cancer.
I called it
compulsive overeating.
She was a grossly obese woman.
She had no skills
for coping with life.
And I guess the combination
of growing up and watching
her struggle and never learning
how to love or accept herself
and then seeing her die was
tremendous motivation for me
to overcome this problem.
I was really determined to
find a way out for myself.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I went to all different
major corporations,
you know, Weight Watchers and
Think Thin and Way of Life
and just tried every
kind of diet program
imaginable out there.
And it wasn't the answer.
I was introduced
to a program called
Overeaters Anonymous,
where I learned that this
was a threefold illness--
spiritual, emotional,
and physical.
And that's where my
path began on the road
to heal physically,
emotionally, and spiritually.
Emotionally I had to
learn and am still working
on loving and accepting myself.
The emotional
recovery took being
able to look at and be with all
of the emotions, the dark side
of me, the shadow self, as
one famous therapist calls it.
I had to be able to look
at and be with myself
when I felt jealous,
when I felt angry,
when I was judgmental
of other people.
And I had to be able to
stay present with that
and ride those feelings
and not turn to food
to bury them as I
had my whole life.
It took some courage and
willpower in that way.
And I found that prayer
was and continues
to be an essential tool for me.
I learned that prayer was
an extremely powerful tool.
I had a difficult time
with it for many years.
I thought of God or the higher
power as a punishing force.
I sort of transferred my
experience with my dad
into this concept
of a higher power.
So I couldn't imagine
some force that
was compassionate
beyond comprehension,
that was loving beyond
comprehension, that
was merciful beyond
my comprehension,
because I never had
that experience.
I've used
visualizations as well.
I found that after several
years of attempting
to visualize my body the
way I wanted it to be,
I wasn't able to do it.
Every time I saw myself thin,
tremendous fear came up for me.
I saw myself sick and dying.
I saw myself get thinner
and thinner and thinner.
I connected that with
watching my mother die,
going from a close to 300
pound woman to 78 pounds
when she died of cancer.
Today, I'm extremely
grateful for the freedom
that I have around food, for
the freedom I have to experience
a level of sadness and a
level of joy that was never
available to me before.
I can dance like
nobody's watching.
[LAUGHS] I can sing sometimes
like nobody's listening.
And I also have
many more moments
which I'm extremely
grateful for,
where I can look at how
I can be of service, what
I can contribute, whether
it's picking up a napkin
for a woman who's
dropped it on the floor
and has difficulty bending.
Whatever it is, I'm not
so caught up in my head
as I was for so many years.
Like the prayer says, it is
in giving that we receive.
And it is in dying
to the false self
and the illusions
of our perceptions
that we're born again.
And I have many moments and
days by the grace of God
where I feel born again.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm 26 years old, and I
currently work at the Omega
Institute for Holistic Studies.
I've been here since
April, and I'd just
like to tell you my soul story.
I grew up in Portland, Oregon.
I ended up getting in
a lot of trouble going
through grade school,
got in a lot of fights,
was always in trouble.
After grade school,
I kind of started
hanging out with you might
say the wrong kind of people.
I started doing a lot of
drugs, selling a lot of drugs.
I was in a gang, just kind of
went around and hurt people,
stole from people, basically
did things that were definitely
not good will to man.
So I got into high school,
I started progressing,
started stealing from
stores, stealing from people,
stealing cars, basically
victimizing, just
victimizing anybody or anything
that I could exploit or take
advantage of.
It didn't really
matter, family friends.
I didn't really
discriminate as long
as I could get sort
of what I wanted.
It's pretty one-track
tunnel vision.
It still progressed, got worse.
Ended up getting kicked out
of a Jesuit high school.
Transferred to a
Catholic high school
and made it there
about three months.
Then I ended up at a
public school system,
which was probably absolutely
the worst thing that could have
happened to me at that time.
I ended up driving my car--
I was on a lot of acid
and a lot of speed.
I really shouldn't have
been behind the wheel.
I was on my way to Portland
to my friend's house
because he had more drugs, and
I wanted to get some more drugs.
And my car broke down
on the side of the road.
And I kind of pulled it off
and sat there in my car.
I was so high and just out
of it and realized, Jesus,
I'm on the side of the road.
I need to get out of here.
There's cops gonna come.
I ended up running down I-5 in
Portland, kind of falling down
this hill, ending up on the
sidewalk, like real out of it.
Couldn't remember
my phone number.
my friend's number.
Didn't have any money.
Pretty much decided
I was either going
to step out in the
middle of the street
or I was going to help myself.
And I chose to help
myself, luckily.
Somehow got a hold
of a friend, who
paid for me to take a cab home.
And I went to my mother's house
at about 6:00 in the morning
the next morning
and told her that I
was just a complete, full-blown
addict, just told her
a lot of the terrible
things that I'd been up to,
lots of things that I
always held from my family.
And my family really didn't
have an accurate depiction of me
at all.
Ended up going to a drug rehab
facility up in Washington.
Went through some serious
withdrawal, depression.
But I met a woman there.
And this woman was the most--
still is the most amazing
woman I think I've ever met.
She was considerably
older than I was.
But we really connected.
We came from the same--
we may not have come
from the same place,
but we ended up
at the same place.
And we both wanted
spirituality back in our life.
We both wanted to be able to
be in touch with ourselves
and feel our lives
going on and not
feel the pain that was in our
lives and the guilt of all
the things that we had done.
So we ended up
having a connection.
And she went to a halfway
house for about three months.
And we talked every
single day on the phone.
And the day she got out,
I packed up my stuff,
went up there.
We were together.
It was beautiful.
It was the best
experience I think I'd
had at that point in my life.
She kind of fell back into her
old behavior, you might say.
And I sort of fell
back into mine.
I still to this
day have not done
speed in four years, no
acid, nothing like that.
But I still smoked
a little bit of pot.
Her drug of choice
was wine, was alcohol.
And as she began to drink, she
turned into a savage animal
sometimes.
She was very verbally abusive,
very physically abusive.
And as her disease
progressed, her behavior
started really getting
erratic, irrational.
She would hit me with
phones, plates, fists.
She bit me.
I had black eyes, bloody
noses, pretty much the worst
scenario I could imagine.
And I never laid a hand on her.
I just kind of let her just
beat me down physically,
emotionally, spiritually.
I realized that this
isn't what I wanted.
This isn't what I signed up for.
I was so low, low in my
life, that I couldn't even
get up and leave the situation.
I came home one night.
She was just obliterated.
She had probably had two
or three jugs of red wine.
And I made the biggest mistake
that I probably ever made,
and I took her jug of
wine and poured it--
just poured it down the sink.
She flipped out like an animal,
just attacked me, punched me,
kicked me, was spitting on me,
degrading me, victimizing me.
And the next morning I woke up
and saw my face and broke down,
had pretty much a
nervous breakdown
and called my call
my boss, said I'm not
coming into work anymore.
Called my landlord, said I'm not
paying on this house anymore.
I left my furniture,
left everything,
came back to Portland,
and just pretty much died.
My life was my couch.
I would lay on my couch in the
deepest, darkest depression,
crying and just pitying myself.
Realized that this
was what I was--
I was owed this in a sense.
I spent most of my life
victimizing other people,
hurting other people, and now
this was almost my penance,
was I had to endure pretty
much what I had dished out.
I knew I had to do
something drastic.
It had been about seven months.
I hadn't even approached a girl,
a woman, didn't trust anybody,
didn't want anybody, never
went out with my friends ever.
My best friend, his father
used to be the director
of operations here at Omega.
He told us all about
community, all about Omega,
and all about how
spiritually uplifting it is.
I realized that was
someplace I needed to go.
I was completely
devoid of spirit,
of any presence in my life.
And I was pretty
much a [INAUDIBLE]..
If it suited me or
helped me, I would do it.
But now I've been meditating a
lot and doing Kirtan chanting,
trying to get into
Tai Chi, trying
to do things that are going
to bring out my spirit and me.
And through the people
here and my family,
I've really realized
that I'm not angry, mean,
that I'm actually a warm,
compassionate, strong,
confident man.
And I have a lot
to offer people,
and I have a lot
to offer myself.
[MUSIC PLAYING]